docs/home.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Home

## About

This site compiles a collection of various write-ups for CS 102 at UTK intended for helping students with labs or general course-related questions.

## Sections Overview

- [Environment Setup](/docs/category/env-setup) - Setting up
  your environment for the course.

- [General](/docs/category/general) - General reference and tips
  for the course.

- [Grading](/docs/category/grading) - Information about grading
  and using the gradescripts.

- [In-Class Lab Notes](/docs/category/in-class-lab-notes) - Introduction
  to the new material needed for the labs.

- [Lab Walkthroughs](/docs/category/lab-walkthroughs) - Step-by-step
  walkthroughs for each lab.

- [Debugging](/docs/category/debugging) - References for debugging
  and other useful information.

## External Resources

- [Professor Crumpton's Notes](https://camille-chanel.github.io/cs102/)
- [Gradescripts download page](https://github.com/utk-eecs-crumpton-tas/cs102-downloads/tree/main/tests)

Commit message:

Renamed site to "handbook" added tutorials, added cs102lings

docs/home.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Home

## About

This site compiles a collection of documentation for CS 102 at UTK intended for helping students with labs or general course-related questions.

## Sections Overview

- [Environment Setup](/docs/category/env-setup) - Setting up
  your C++ development environment and IDE for the course.

- [Tutorials](/docs/category/tutorials) - Tutorials for
  various topics in the course.

- [General](/docs/category/general) - General reference and tips
  for the course.

- [Grading](/docs/category/grading) - Information about grading
  and using the gradescripts.

- [In-Class Lab Notes](/docs/category/in-class-lab-notes) - Introduction
  to the new material needed for the labs.

- [Lab Walkthroughs](/docs/category/lab-walkthroughs) - Step-by-step
  walkthroughs for each lab.

- [Debugging](/docs/category/debugging) - References for debugging
  and other useful information.

## External Resources

- [Professor Crumpton's Notes](https://camille-chanel.github.io/cs102/)
- [Gradescripts download page](https://github.com/utk-eecs-crumpton-tas/cs102-downloads/tree/main/tests)
